Vite plugin docs (#20481)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/vite-plugin/get-started.mdx

{/* Add link to React Router framework guide */}If you would instead like to create a new application from a ready-to-go template, refer to the [React](/workers/frameworks/framework-guides/react/) or [Vue](/workers/frameworks/framework-guides/vue/) framework guides.
:::

### Start with a basic `package.json`

```json
{
	"name": "cloudflare-vite-quick-start",
	"private": true,
	"version": "0.0.0",
	"type": "module",
	"scripts": {
		"dev": "vite",
		"build": "vite build",
		"preview": "vite preview",
		"deploy": "wrangler deploy"
	}
}
```

:::note
Ensure that you include `"type": "module"` in order to use ES modules by default.
:::

### Install the dependencies

<PackageManagers type="add" pkg="vite @cloudflare/vite-plugin wrangler" dev />

### Create your Vite config file and include the Cloudflare plugin

```ts
// vite.config.ts

import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { cloudflare } from "@cloudflare/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [cloudflare()],
});
```

### Create your Worker config file

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
name = "cloudflare-vite-quick-start"
compatibility_date = "2024-12-30"
main = "./src/index.ts"
```

> </WranglerConfig>

Author: I realised that I don't yet link to https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/configuration/ anywhere in these docs so will add that in a few places. Emily has started some work to call out the fields in the configuration page that are not relevant when using the Vite plugin.

### Create your Worker entry file

```ts
// src/index.ts

export default {
	fetch() {
		return new Response(`Running in ${navigator.userAgent}!`);
	},
};
```

> You can now develop (`npm run dev`), build (`npm run build`), preview (`npm run preview`), and deploy (`npm run deploy`) your application.

Author: How's this? I did think about showing the bare commands instead (e.g. `vite dev`) but I think using the scripts makes more sense as they are added above.

```suggestion
You can now start the development server (`npm run dev`), build the application (`npm run build`), preview the built application (`npm run preview`), and deploy to Cloudflare (`npm run deploy`).
```

> You can now develop (`npm run dev`), build (`npm run build`), preview (`npm run preview`), and deploy (`npm run deploy`) your application.

Reviewer: Looks good, could we even add "start the Vite development server"?

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Get started
head: []
sidebar:
  order: 1
description: Get started with the Vite plugin
---

import { PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

:::note
This guide demonstrates creating a standalone Worker from scratch.
{/* Add link to React Router framework guide */}If you would instead like to create a new application from a ready-to-go template, refer to the [React](/workers/frameworks/framework-guides/react/) or [Vue](/workers/frameworks/framework-guides/vue/) framework guides.
:::

### Start with a basic `package.json`

> ```json

Reviewer 2: You can title all of these by adding 

```
```json title="title"
```

});
```

The Cloudflare Vite plugin doesn't require any configuration by default and will look for a `wrangler.jsonc`, `wrangler.json` or `wrangler.toml` in the root of your application.

Refer to the [API reference](/workers/vite-plugin/api/) for configuration options.

### Create your Worker config file

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
name = "cloudflare-vite-quick-start"
compatibility_date = "2025-04-03"
main = "./src/index.ts"
```

</WranglerConfig>

The `name` field specifies the name of your Worker.
By default, this is also used as the name of the Worker's Vite Environment (see [Vite Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/vite-environments/) for more information).
The `main` field specifies the entry file for your Worker code.

For more information about the Worker configuration, see [Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/).

### Create your Worker entry file

```ts
// src/index.ts

export default {
	fetch() {
		return new Response(`Running in ${navigator.userAgent}!`);
	},
};
```

A request to this Worker will return 'Running in Cloudflare-Workers!', demonstrating that the code is running inside the Workers runtime.

### Dev, build, preview and deploy

> You can now start the Vite development server (`npm run dev`), build the application (`npm run build`), preview the built application (`npm run preview`), and deploy to Cloudflare (`npm run deploy`).

Reviewer 2: Move these to separate code blocks to be more actionable / copy and pastable?
